Hi and welcome back.
So let's dig right into the code for named topples before we do that.
As we mentioned in the video you might be tempted to write something like this.
Let's say we want to do a three dimensional point so we might want to do a class tool say class Point
3D and then we're going to use our init method to pass in three values and then we're going to create
properties of those that will say self-taught examples X Sal got y y self got z z and that's it.
That's our class.
Pretty straightforward pretty easy.
If you find yourself doing that quite often and if you find yourself doing that simply because you want
to have a data structure where you have names for the values that you have inside the data structure
take a step back and think about this because a name top hole is a better way of doing it.
Now of course name tables are immutable.
So if you need mutability that's out but otherwise if you don't and very often it's much safer to write
immutable objects because that way you know if you pass them to a function nobody's going to modify
the object without you knowing about it.
It's much safer.
So we tend to want to write immutable classes or classes with immutable properties as much as we can.
So let's go ahead and use a named topple instead.
So we're going to have to import name toppled from collections
and then topple is a function.
It is not a class.
Remember that it is a class factory.
So how do we go about doing it.
Let's say we want a two dimensional point.
So we'll just call the name top all we need to tell is the name of the class that we want.
We're going to call it point to D and by convention we usually assign it to a variable name.
What comes back from top topple is a class and we assign it to the variable name with the same name
as the class just keeps things you know kind of neat and orderly and then we need to pass in the fields.
So in this case I'm going to use a list just like we had in the original example.
So we'll pass on two fields.
Those are valid names.
They're valid identifiers and they don't start of an underscore.
So this is valid for named top.
So now we have a pointer to the class.
Essentially this is a class that was generated by name top.
We can generate instances of points this way we can say point one equals point to D 10 to 20.
OK so now we have this class and now we can actually look at the representation of the class and you
can see that comes back as point to DXi calls 10 y equals 20.
So that's kind of nice.
Now if we did that our point 3D class we could say something like this point 3D underscore one Michael's
point 3D 10 camera 20 calm authority.
So you can see that we're creating a point 3D and point to d in a very similar way.
But if I say foin 3D underscore one what do I get.
I get this over here.
So in order to fix that I would have to add more code.
I would have to write something like write a wrapper and we'll see how to do that in a few minutes.
But I would have to implement that in order to get that nice display that nice representation of my
point 3D class named Apple does that for us that comes kind of along for free.
So that's kind of nice.
Also I want to just point out as we mentioned in the lecture video I could also call this P-T let's
say 2d.
Right.
And that could be a named topple not the name of the class is going to be.
Point three point to D.
And again we'll use x and y.
In this case just to show you I'm going to use a couple of field names.
So now we have this class that was generated by named topple.
But the class name is point to D which just assigned to a different variable name but this variable
points to whatever class was returned my name topple.
So now we can create a point we can say P-T two equals P-T to D 10 comma 20.
We've created that.
And if we look at what that is you can see the representation still says point to D.
Right.
It has nothing to do with the variable name.
So just keep that in mind.
And this is why we usually don't do that.
We just say points to d we keep it the same that way is more it's more consistent.
I'm creating an instance of point to d that's what we're used to.
And in fact that is the name of the class and this is really no different than it would say P-T 3D quolls
point 3D.
Right.
We have this variable name now that points to the same class that point 3D points to one 3D of course
is just a name that a variable name essentially that Python created for us that points to the class
Point 3D.
That's what this statement does it does two things.
So we can Aliase point 3D with 3D and now we can create a point safee he calls P-T 3D 10 20 come forward.
That's for Watson to look at P we can see it is though an instance of Point 3 that's the name of the
class.
It has nothing to do with the variable name here.
The other thing too that's nice with classes for example here what we did and very commonly we do that
the parameter names x y and z are the same as the at the property names the attributes X Y and Z.
So that means that to create an instance of point 3D I could save people's point three-D actually cost
to 10 y equals 20 and z equals story that will work just fine.
And now P-doc X's 10 P-Dub Why is 20 and so and we can do the same thing with name topples the class
that is generated when we call named Toppo actually uses those field names.
Also has the parameter names in whatever creates the class.
So now we can say p equals point to D.
X equals turn y equals 20.
So again this helps make our code more readable and if we look at P indeed we have 10 common 20 right.
We have the top but remember p is a top of it is a class that inherits from Toppo.
So in fact we can do is instance P comma.
And the answer will be true.
That of course would not be the case if we have this if we have a point three-D and we check is instance
P comma topple.
Well the answer is false.
It is not inheriting from top but point to D does and so it has a lot of advantages.
If we have that.
So we saw what was missing from our class that we created ourselves was the representation we got this
for the name Toppo but we got this for our own class.
Here's another thing that we're missing as well.
Let's say and we get that because tables are tables right so I can say 10 20 let's say eight equals
10 20 and B equals 10 20.
Now was.
This is a B The answer is no.
These are two different objects in memory.
However eight equals equals B is true because we have the same values of the same positions.
So Python has that for topples since the name toppled inherits from topple.
We actually get that for free as well.
Let's take a look.
Let's say we have point one because point to D 10 Commack 20 and point two equals points to D 10 common
20 k we have these two points.
Now is Peetie want the same as two.
The answer is no.
They're not the same objects that live in different you know memory addresses however 12:57 equals equals
P-T 2 we get true.
And that wouldn't be the case with our point three declasse if we say P-T one equals point three in
10 20 30 and P-T two equals point three 10 20 30 then P-T one is Peetie.
Obviously it's going to be false.
But also P-T 1 equals equals 2 is also false.
So now in order to fix those two problems we would have to implement the Dondre wrapper and the donder
equals Let's do that very quickly.
So you would have to say def under repr self.
And here we're going to return.
I'm going to use one of these new strings in Python.
3:6.
And we'll do it this way so we're going to return back on self Darb gander class to get the class Gunders
name to get the name of the class.
So that's going to be the class and then we're going to pass x equals self-doubt X comma y equals x
comma.
Actually yeah that's right.
Y equals self-doubt Y.
And we close that.
So now we have the representation for our class we also need to implement the dump the dungaree calls.
So we have self and others we've how to do that before so we can say if it is instance other of point
3D what are we going to want to do.
We're going to want to check the quality of the X Y and Z.
So we're going to say return self-caused X equals equals other dot X and self-help y equals equals are
not Y and self-doubt z equals equals other Godsey else.
If it's not the same type we're just going to say no you can't have equality.
OK so now you saw we had to add quite a bit of code to do things that we got free with the name topple.
So no classes got all that more complicated.
It wasn't just as simple as you know set up these three properties.
We want to make them behave nicely so we have to add some extra functionality.
So no of course if we do this let's create those two points 3-D.
Now I can look at the representation of pool and you know what it tells me it's point 3D Ezekial 10
Wiggles 20.
And of course I should probably add a third component.
So there we go Selldorf Z.
Now we get that right.
10:23 and P-T one equals equals two.
Now returns true.
Right so now we have that functionality that we didn't have.
But there's other things that we lose by the fact that point 3D is not a top.
For example how would we find the maximum value of the you know the maximum coordinate in a point.
Well if we're looking at let's say point 1 equals point to the 10 common 20 and let's say point to the
cost point 3D 10 20.
OK.
And we want to find the maximum value of the 10 20 in this point.
What's the maximum call that while P-T 1 is a top or.
Very simple to say Matzke T-1 we get 20.
What about Max FTT to me that.
And we get that point 3D object is not iterable it cannot iterate through P-T to it's not a topple it's
not list it's not an iterable.
So this doesn't work.
So now we'd have to look at the individual dot dot Why Dot Z and then find you know the maximum of that.
That's not great because P-T 1.2 D is a top or we get that for free as well.
Let me show you something else as well that we get for free with a name.
Let's say that we want to calculate the dot product of two points.
Now I know that we don't have dot product of two points but let's say that we had vectors which would
be the same so I could actually say vector actually just use point to the being of point to D as a vector
in a starting point of 0 0.
OK.
So that point then is a vector and thing of point 3 is the same thing it's just a vector where it's
beginning point is the origin 0 0 and its end point is whatever that point is.
So now if we want to calculate the dot product of two vectors so let's say we have a vector
that say we have a equals or an x component a dot X right and an eighth of Y.
And let's say we have B equals b dot X can beat out y.
All right.
Let's say that we have these two vectors with these two two components.
What is the dot product.
Well a dot B is simply equal to Adolph X times beat or X plus Adolf Y Times beat up y.
We just multiply the components pairwise between the two vectors and then we add those values up.
That's called the dot product.
So that's the kind of formula we want to implement.
Well let's go ahead and do that with our 3-D point.
OK.
We could certainly do that.
So let's say there dot product
3D and I'm going to name it 3D because this is only going to work with 3D points.
Let's see why.
Because I take two parameters a and b.
Those are going to be 3D points.
That's what they have to be.
So what am I going to return.
I'm going to return it up x times of X plus Adolf Y Times lead off y plus a Z times the dot Z.
And that's the dot product.
So now I can call I can create let's say P-T one equals points.
3d one common to come at three and then TTB two equals.
Point 3D.
Let's say one come one come all one.
So the dot product should be one plus two plus three right.
One times one is one two times one is one three times one is one.
So let's go ahead and do that dot product 3D off point 1 and point 2.
And indeed we get six k.
So that was just fine.
Now how about doing it for the arm.
Point to the now name topple or remember it's a.
So if you think about the top or here's what we have right.
We have that eight equals let's say one common two.
This is two dimensional and B equals that say 1 come 1.
So now how are we going to get the dot product.
Well we need to multiply one by one and then multiply two by one.
So let's first start by looking at what happens if we Zipp those two things up and I'm going to convert
it to a list so I can print it out.
But let's go ahead and zip a and b remember what Ziv does right.
It basically takes the the the elements from A and B pairwise and it creates a couple of them and then
does it for as many elements as we have.
So here we get one in one and then two and one and you'll now would we have to do is we just have to
multiply what's inside each Toppo that will give us the product and then we have to sum up those products
so we can do this quite easily.
We can start by taking let's say a list comprehension.
And we're going to iterate what we're going to say for elements in a comma.
Right.
What are we going to get.
What is each element going to be.
It's going to be this topple one one.
What we want to do it we want to multiply.
So we're going to say that times that K for e and that that's going to give us what that's going to
give us.
1 times 1 and 2 times 1.
And now what do we need to do with it to sum up to get the product.
And in fact we don't even need the square parentheses here.
It just works that way.
So this is how we get the dot product of two elements A and B two vectors A and B.
The advantage is that.
So let's let's first write it as a function let's say dot product a comedy.
And what are we going to retire.
We're going to return this.
We're just going to copy paste this thing over here.
So now I can call dupped product on a and b.
Right.
Which is three.
Now what about points.
Well let's go ahead and define a point that points to the let's say one comment to let's keep the same
values and point two equals points to the one on a 1 k.
So remember we're considering those as vectors.
So we have those.
Now we can do a dot product of P-T 1 and 2.
And that works just fine.
But here's the advantage of this function and the fact that these are just topples.
If we can go ahead now and we can say point let's actually call it vector 3D equals named Toppo.
And this will be the class name back to 3D and we will have X Y and Z.
OK so now we have a vector defined so now we can say vector one equals vector.
3d one common to come at three and vector two equals vector 3D one from one common one.
OK.
And what I do wrong here.
Get to 3D is not defined.
I have to spell it correctly.
OK.
So now we have these two vectors and of course we can list them out right.
We can see their representation.
X 1 y to z 3.
But remember that V-1 is a tadpole and so is V-2 which means now we get the dot product directly by
using our dot product function of the proper function.
Never made any assumption on the number of coordinates in a and b Whereas when we did it for the 3D
We have to because the only way we could get at those was not the only way but really the the most salient
way of getting to the coordinates was using the dot notation.
So now we get the dot product and we get did six one times one plus two times one plus three times one.
OK.
So the next thing I want to point out is that those things are indeed those name topples indeed topples.
So we can take for example we solve the one has that representation but we could also just look at the
plane topple this way we can just you know pass it to topple and it's going to give us back to the plane
you know undecorated Toppo.
Well not decorated but the plane topple.
That's the one we be that underlies V-1 which is that class.
So this means that we can access elements in V-1 also by things like Index for example the 1 0 0 0 we
can slice it 0 2.
So we should get the first two right of the one.
Remember V-1 is the name top all right not just the plain table it's a name.
But because it's a name table we can either access it as a top hole or we can access it using the field
names.
The one on X-Fi wondered why and so on.
So that's the advantage of the nine top we can choose which way we want to access the data.
Either we can use that as a table or we can use it as a class with property names.
There's different ways that we can specify the field and when we create a name Applegate's go ahead
and create let's say a circle so named Toppo it's going to be so a call and remember that we have that
in the previous in the previous video with two videos back.
We use the circle and then we have to basically use the convention that the first item was going to
be the X called the centerpoint second item was going to be the y coordinates of the center point and
the last one was going to be radius.
Here we can actually give it a name so we can say Center x.
I'm going to use spaces here center Y.
So you'll notice I'm not using now a list or a couple of strings.
I'm just giving one string separated by whitespace.
I'm going to put let's say a.
Just to show you that it doesn't matter you know how many spaces we put.
So there's my name top hole and I can create a new circle I can say c cold so call that say add 0 0
for a radius of 10 and I follow get C. I get so-call sent to that center.
Why is that radius is that.
And in fact I can type so-called dobs radius and get the radius out that way.
Just as you know just like a normal class since it is a class and rageous is a property on class.
And just to show you that we can actually use even different types of whitespace.
Let's go ahead and create a stock named top hole.
So we're going to call it stock.
And here I want the the symbol the year month day high high low close.
Right.
Oh the open high low close.
So this will be a pretty long string.
I have to say symbol then the year in the month the day then open the high the low and the close.
OK.
So if you find that it's starting to get too long.
Well you can just do this.
We can put this as a multi-line string.
So we do have to make it a multi-line string.
But now that I have that I can go ahead and do it this way.
That's probably a little overkill.
But you could and me go ahead and then that little bit more just to show you doesn't matter.
Pocket Tanser.
OK.
Now I have a stock.
So now I could say Dow Jones Industrial Average equals stock and really tickled the Dow Jones industrial
average let's say it was 2018 and I'm looking at my notes here to say I get the numbers right.
Let's say the 25th.
The opening price was well you know rounded twenty six thousand 313 by the way.
You can write the numbers this way but non-pilot on 360 you can actually separate digits using the underscore.
Makes it easy to read.
Twenty six four five eight.
And we have 26 to 60.
Just reading my notes and 26 393.
OK.
So now we have this nine top all right.
And you could see it picked up the names of the fields correctly.
So you got a variety of ways that you can use to create the field names.
We can of course access as we saw before the elements of the values in the top all in the DJIA toppled
because it is a topple but it's a name topple and so we can access it by using the property names that
the name of class provides us so we can say DJI a door closed for example and that will give us the
closed 26 393.
But of course it's also a topple.
So we can iterate through it.
We can say for item in DJIA print item and it prints out all the things and of course the order is simple
and the order is maintained to topple.
So it's a sequence.
So when we iterate through the sequence it iterates it in the same order that the that it's in the puzzle
now we can unpack them as well.
So that's a real advantage.
Let's say we have let's go back to our point we have to be equals point to the 10 comma 20.
That's very easy to unpack.
We can just say x y equals p.
We've seen how to unpack topples and now we can look at the value of x That's 10 and the value of y.
That's 20.
So very easy to unpack topples.
And of course we can use extended unpacking with topples.
Again we've seen that.
So let's do that with the Dow Jones Industrial.
Let's say I want to grab the symbol the year the month and the day and the close I was interested in
that so I'm going to say similar calmer year calm months calmer day calmer star underscore I'm using
the underscore as a variable name to validate but it just means I'm not really interested in it.
And then the last one will be close.
And then we can unpack it this way.
So now symbol and I'm going to pack a tuple just to show you that we have now that value we have DJIA
was in symbol 2018 was and you know also we we did extensive unpacking on the tuple which makes life
a lot easier in certain circumstances which we'll get to when we talk about extending and modifying
the you know the tuple because it is immutable so we can't actually mutate it.
But essentially what we can do is just like with strings.
How do you change a string.
You take the existing string you manipulate it and you create a new string out of that and you position
you don't mutate the string but you can create new strings given a string.
You can do things on it.
So we'll do the same thing we'll see.
You know how to do that.
We've named Bubbles as well.
Oh and by the way the underscore is as I said a valid variable name.
So we can actually print it out and you can see it's the values within Pick-Up 26 3 1 3 26 4 5 8 26
to 60.
Those three because we grab your your month stay up your month and day and close and the rest were ignored
by essentially unpacking it into this variable.
The only thing with name topples you cannot use an underscore for your field names.
So if you try and do something like this let's say person equals named toppled person and let's say
you want to say name age and underscore social security number for example.
It's going to give you an error.
It's going to say no field names cannot start with the underscore.
Again that's got nothing to do with classes and regular classes you can.
There's nothing that stops you in here from saying self does underscore SSN equals all defaulted to
none.
That works just fine as you see nothing.
Python didn't complain.
So it's got nothing to do with that.
It's the type of function that this allows that.
And that's because it has this property which is a key word only on this property that has this argument
which is a key word only argument called rename by default it's false that if you set it to true it
will basically take any invalid field name and generate a new one for us that is valid.
And the way it does it is it uses the underscore and the position.
So it reserves the underscore for doing that.
And if you think about it let's say you had multiple of those let's say over here I had.
So what's going to happen here is that the fields and you can always look at the fields by looking at
the underscores Fields property of the class.
We have underscored too.
So that's what it put in.
Instead it replaced underscore SSN with that what if we'd had you know another field in view underscored
you know while underscore at this point underscore three.
Well if it didn't do the replacement on this one it would have a problem right if it allowed this to
be correct and it did have a place on this one.
While it would run into an issue.
So anyways the idea is that it basically by reserving the underscore for itself to rename fields.
It avoids potential clashes that wasn't a very good example but it Avorn you know it avoids potential
clashes with existing field names.
So that was guaranteed that it's not going to step over any toes or.
The introspection.
We've seen this now.
How do you feel so we can always look at Feel so we can look at a point 3D underscore feels and point
3d of course is our class.
So it doesn't have that property but our point to the does right.
It tells us we have x and y.
We also have the stock and we get that as well right.
We get all the fields that are defined in the stock named tuple.
The other thing that's really interesting is that we can actually look at the source code for the class
that was essentially generated by the name tuple.
It doesn't generate that source code it actually generates the class it uses something else.
We'll get into that later when we look at our metaprogramming.
But isn't really if you want to do it yourself you would be able to take this particular code that we
have here and recreate the name tuple yourself.
So let's take a look at Starc underscore source and let's print it out so we get the line breaks when
needed.
So there's a bunch of stuff going on and I'm not going to get into that.
But basically you can see that we have this under Schofields remember that property that we looked at
underscore feels that return that that's where it comes from.
Now this was generated dynamically by name tuple.
So I generated this class dynamically but Python is a dynamic language.
It's possible to define classes at runtime.
And this is what exactly what's happening.
You can see we have this done to a new method and the Dundon new method has these as parameter names
and that's why we can use keyword parameters when we generate instances of stock.
And we can actually use symbol equals DJIA your equals 20:18 and so on.
We saw that with a point class it also has the rep of method done for us.
So we have that and it also has all these properties we have like symbols symbol it's going to go and
grab the item at position 0 in the tuple years it's to go and grab it a one close it's going to go grab
it it's at 7 so you can see we have all these properties in this class and there's other things as well
that are in this class that we'll get to later like replace for example and make and then we'll also
take a look at as direct as well.
And we're going to look at pickling arm but we'll look at the other methods that are available.
And of course if you look at the underscore source for a different name to pull that same point to deal
underscores So it's dot com.
And let's print that as well.
So it formats nicely you'll see that you know there's differences.
It looks very similar it has a lot of the same stuff.
But now there's only two fields the dhanda the underscore field is just these two names.
You'll see that we only have two properties here instead of the you know the eight that we had in the
other one and so on.
But you still have the addict the done the wrapper the underscore replace on the scale make all that
is still there.
So let's just look at the as dict method.
So we have let's say art Dow Jones Industrial and what we can do.
We can use that instance and call the dict method and that just creates a dictionary creates a dictionary
nights.
Actually an older dict and I'll talk about that in a second.
But you can see that the dictionary has the key and the value.
So that's that's what that is.
And so if we assign it to let's say a variable D.
Now I can go and say d symbol OK I can access it just like a regular dictionary and I can have the clothes
for example.
And we get that now why an ordered dict on the let's run this again just to show your MDG underscore
and as dict y y an older dictionary and older dictionaries a special dictionary that's implemented in
the standard library that maintains the older of the keys.
So when you create an older dictionary and you add keys to it the keys are guaranteed to stay in order.
And I've said before that the dictionary the standard dictionary in Python doesn't guarantee that like
set sets don't guarantee ordering but that's no longer true.
In fact dictionaries and Python 3:6 by the way they are implemented do maintain key order and until
very recently however it was not guaranteed.
So you could not actually really use that fact in your code because even though the older was guaranteed
in a dictionary it might have changed you somewhere down the line and then your code would break.
So we never considered dictionaries even in Python 3:6 as being ordered.
And so we have this all the dictums that have been around for quite a while.
But the new implementation of dictionary that was put in to Python 3:6 does maintain the order.
And last year in just before Christmas there was a nice Christmas gift actually for Python programmers.
Guido and Rossum decided that yeah that's moving forward dictionaries will guarantee to keep order.
So that's great.
That means that you know we don't really need to be using all the disks anymore so my prediction is
that these are slowly going to start disappearing and will stay you know stick to a regular dictionary.
But you can always you know convert and all addicted to addict because an addict inherits from Dick.
It is it is a dick.
So you can say Dick ordered another old addicts
can always do that and we get this OK.
But now you'll notice what happened is that the way it did that it probably got these in a different
order and so we lost the order here.
So we'll see if that gets changed in the standard library if it now you don't actually return a dictionary
or not.
You're also probably wondering if there's a lot of overhead using name topples instead of just a regular
topic.
And the answer is really not that much.
The names of the fields and the properties are in the class right.
They're not in every object the class has the field.
We solve that right.
The field names you know are in the class so yes we have a class but that class is just a one time thing
and then every instance is really just a tuple and has some extra things.
But there's really you know literally no overhead or not.
I mean not literally there is extremely little overhead.
If you're creating thousands for example of instances of the point to d you're not incurring you know
creating this thing a thousand times and having the field names a thousand times.
That's told in the class.
The object itself is a tuple.
It's also a name tuple but it is also a tuple.
So not really a lot of overhead.
If you do access the property names using the dot dot dot dot y.
Sure it's got some overhead it's going to have to go basically into a property and then you know run
this code item whether it's going to have to go and get the item out of the tuple.
But this is no different than if you're writing your own class and writing darf x.
It's kind of have to you know look at the property and retrieve the value for that property.
So really you know in terms of overhead.
Not a whole lot.
All right.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.